Metamask, a cryptocurrency wallet, generates private keys (or seed phrases) for its users, which are used to access crypto assets. Theoretically, there is a possibility that the same private key could be assigned to two different users, but this probability is extremely low. In fact, it is so low that it is almost impossible in practice.

Private keys and keywords are selected from a very large pool of possibilities. In particular, the possible combinations of a seed phrase generated as 12 words are astronomical. Therefore, the probability that two different users will receive the same private key or set of keywords in a completely random and independent manner is much lower than the probability that two people will be struck by lightning in the same place in the same second.

As a result, Metamask or other trusted crypto wallet providers are designed to minimize the risk of issuing the same keywords or private keys to two users. This is critical to ensure the security of the user's assets.

As an extra: High Entropy: Keywords are randomly generated with high entropy (degree of randomness). The number of possible combinations is astronomical, especially when you consider a keyword set of 12, 18 or 24 words.

Probability: For a keyword set generated by selecting 12 words from a list of 2048 words (which is a common method used in the BIP39 standard), the number of possible combinations is 2048^12. This number, simply put, is over millions of trillions of trillions of trillions. Therefore, the chance of two users randomly getting the same keyword combination is much lower than the chance of winning the lottery.

Standards and Protocols: Crypto wallets follow certain standards and protocols (for example, BIP39) when creating keyword sets. These protocols are designed to ensure that keyword sets are generated in a secure and randomized way.

Misleading Notion of Probability: People often misjudge such probabilities. For example, in cases like the birthday paradox, we are surprised to learn that in a group of 23 people, the probability of two people having the same birthday is over 50%. However, when it comes to keywords, the probabilities are completely different and extremely low.

#Bitcoin detailed research series 1.

All tools and information contained herein are presented or made available for the sole purpose of securing legal remedies. I do not undertake any illegal action on your part. FOR PURELY EDUCATIONAL PURPOSES.
